README.md, before:

# Symfony Directory Loader

Recursively import directories of configuration.

This works for your main configuration files and the router.

See https://github.com/symfony/symfony-standard/issues/599

## Installation

Add the following in your root composer.json file:

```json
{
    "require": {
        "wemakecustom/directory-loader-bundle": "~1.0@dev"
    },
}
```

And modify your `app/AppKernel.php`:
```php
<?php
    public function registerBundles()
    {
        $bundles = array(
            // ...
            new WMC\DirectoryLoaderBundle\WMCDirectoryLoaderBundle,
        );
        // ...
    }

    protected function getContainerLoader(ContainerInterface $container)
    {
        $loader = parent::getContainerLoader($container);
        $locator = new FileLocator($this);
     
        // Add additional loader to the resolver
        $resolver = $loader->getResolver();
        $resolver->addLoader(new DirectoryFileLoader($container, $locator));
     
        return $loader;
    }
?>
```

Strictly speaking, registering the Bundle is only necessary if you want the fonctionnality
in the routing files and overloading the ContainerLoader is only necessary for the main
configuration files, but you do what you want.

## Usage

The main goal of this bundle is to drop configuration files in folder without modifying
the main `config.yml`. This way, each file can group all (and only) the configuration
related to a specific bundle.

### Using a directory based on the environment

Instead of using `config_ENV.yml`, one may use a directory for each environment.

For example:

```
└── app
   ├── config
   │  ├── common
   │  │  └── assetic.yml
   │  │  └── framework.yml
   │  │  └── security.yml
   │  ├── dev
   │  │  └── framework.yml
   │  │  └── assetic.yml
   │  ├── prod
   │  │  └── assetic.yml
   │  │  └── google_analytics.yml
   │  ├── config.yml
   │  └── parameters.yml
   └── AppKernel.php
```

```php
<?php
    // app/AppKernel.php
    public function registerContainerConfiguration(LoaderInterface $loader)
    {
        $loader->load(__DIR__.'/config/config.yml');
        $loader->load(__DIR__.'/config/' . $this->getEnvironment() . '/');
    }
?>
```

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
imports:
    - { resource: 'parameters.yml' }
    - { resource: 'common/' }
```

### Using directories for parameters

Parameters can be loaded as directories as well in the same fashion.

Moreover, an interesting concept is to have a folder for core parameters,
global to your application and local parameters, specific to each installation.

For example:

```
└── app
   ├── config
   │  └── …
   ├── parameters
   │  └── common
   │  │  └── core.yml
   │  │  └── i18n.yml
   │  ├── dist
   │  │  └── mailer.yml
   │  ├── local
   │  │  └── .gitignore
   │  └── config.yml
   └── AppKernel.php
```

`app/parameters/local/*.yml` will be ignored and its content will be the files from
`app/parameters/dist`, copied and modified accordingly.

You can then modify your `config.yml`: 
```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
imports:
    - { resource: 'parameters/common/' }
    - { resource: 'parameters/local/' }
    - { resource: 'common/' }
```

### Using a composer script to generate configuration files

To fill the missing files on each composer run, you can replace the native parameters
builder by [wemakecustom/composer-script-utils](https://github.com/wemakecustom/composer-script-utils)
and configure your `composer.json`, replacing `Incenteev\ParameterHandler\ScriptHandler`

```json
{
    "require": {
        # ...
        "wemakecustom/directory-loader-bundle": "1.0.*@dev",
        "wemakecustom/composer-script-utils": ">=0.3"
    },
    "scripts": {
        "post-install-cmd": [
            "WMC\\Composer\\Utils\\ConfigFile\\ConfigDir::updateDirs",
            # remove this: "Incenteev\\ParameterHandler\\ScriptHandler::buildParameters"
            # ...
        ],
        "post-update-cmd": [
            "WMC\\Composer\\Utils\\ConfigFile\\ConfigDir::updateDirs",
            # remove this: "Incenteev\\ParameterHandler\\ScriptHandler::buildParameters"
            # ...
        ]
    },
    "extra": {
        "update-config-dirs": {
            "app/config/parameters/dist": "app/config/parameters/local"
        },
        # # remove this: 
        # "incenteev-parameters": {
        #     "file": "app/config/parameters.yml"
        # },
    }
}
```

### Full example

You can see the final configuration tree here:
https://github.com/wemakecustom/symfony-kickstart/tree/master/dist

## Word of caution

[AsseticBundle](https://github.com/symfony/AsseticBundle) features a PHP directory loader
to be able to parse Controllers. This directory loader superseeds it: if it tries to do the
job of Assetic’s loader, it works correctly, but not the other way around. 

Therefore, this bundle inserts itself before Assetic to ensure it is run before.
A way to prevent this is to specify `type: directory` in the router import, but there is
currently a bug around this method. See symfony/AsseticBundle#289 and symfony/symfony#11018.

Commit message:

added documentation for usage without symfony-framework and changed requirements

README.md, after:

# Symfony Directory Loader

Recursively import directories of configuration.

This works for your main configuration files and the router.

See https://github.com/symfony/symfony-standard/issues/599

## Installation

Add the following in your root composer.json file:

```json
{
    "require": {
        "wemakecustom/directory-loader-bundle": "~1.0@dev"
    },
}
```

And modify your `app/AppKernel.php`:
```php
<?php
    public function registerBundles()
    {
        $bundles = array(
            // ...
            new WMC\DirectoryLoaderBundle\WMCDirectoryLoaderBundle,
        );
        // ...
    }

    protected function getContainerLoader(ContainerInterface $container)
    {
        $loader = parent::getContainerLoader($container);
        $locator = new FileLocator($this);
     
        // Add additional loader to the resolver
        $resolver = $loader->getResolver();
        $resolver->addLoader(new DirectoryFileLoader($container, $locator));
     
        return $loader;
    }
?>
```

Strictly speaking, registering the Bundle is only necessary if you want the fonctionnality
in the routing files and overloading the ContainerLoader is only necessary for the main
configuration files, but you do what you want.

## Usage

The main goal of this bundle is to drop configuration files in folder without modifying
the main `config.yml`. This way, each file can group all (and only) the configuration
related to a specific bundle.

### Using a directory based on the environment

Instead of using `config_ENV.yml`, one may use a directory for each environment.

For example:

```
└── app
   ├── config
   │  ├── common
   │  │  └── assetic.yml
   │  │  └── framework.yml
   │  │  └── security.yml
   │  ├── dev
   │  │  └── framework.yml
   │  │  └── assetic.yml
   │  ├── prod
   │  │  └── assetic.yml
   │  │  └── google_analytics.yml
   │  ├── config.yml
   │  └── parameters.yml
   └── AppKernel.php
```

```php
<?php
    // app/AppKernel.php
    public function registerContainerConfiguration(LoaderInterface $loader)
    {
        $loader->load(__DIR__.'/config/config.yml');
        $loader->load(__DIR__.'/config/' . $this->getEnvironment() . '/');
    }
?>
```

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
imports:
    - { resource: 'parameters.yml' }
    - { resource: 'common/' }
```

### Using directories for parameters

Parameters can be loaded as directories as well in the same fashion.

Moreover, an interesting concept is to have a folder for core parameters,
global to your application and local parameters, specific to each installation.

For example:

```
└── app
   ├── config
   │  └── …
   ├── parameters
   │  └── common
   │  │  └── core.yml
   │  │  └── i18n.yml
   │  ├── dist
   │  │  └── mailer.yml
   │  ├── local
   │  │  └── .gitignore
   │  └── config.yml
   └── AppKernel.php
```

`app/parameters/local/*.yml` will be ignored and its content will be the files from
`app/parameters/dist`, copied and modified accordingly.

You can then modify your `config.yml`: 
```yaml
# app/config/config.yml
imports:
    - { resource: 'parameters/common/' }
    - { resource: 'parameters/local/' }
    - { resource: 'common/' }
```

### Using a composer script to generate configuration files

To fill the missing files on each composer run, you can replace the native parameters
builder by [wemakecustom/composer-script-utils](https://github.com/wemakecustom/composer-script-utils)
and configure your `composer.json`, replacing `Incenteev\ParameterHandler\ScriptHandler`

```json
{
    "require": {
        # ...
        "wemakecustom/directory-loader-bundle": "1.0.*@dev",
        "wemakecustom/composer-script-utils": ">=0.3"
    },
    "scripts": {
        "post-install-cmd": [
            "WMC\\Composer\\Utils\\ConfigFile\\ConfigDir::updateDirs",
            # remove this: "Incenteev\\ParameterHandler\\ScriptHandler::buildParameters"
            # ...
        ],
        "post-update-cmd": [
            "WMC\\Composer\\Utils\\ConfigFile\\ConfigDir::updateDirs",
            # remove this: "Incenteev\\ParameterHandler\\ScriptHandler::buildParameters"
            # ...
        ]
    },
    "extra": {
        "update-config-dirs": {
            "app/config/parameters/dist": "app/config/parameters/local"
        },
        # # remove this: 
        # "incenteev-parameters": {
        #     "file": "app/config/parameters.yml"
        # },
    }
}
```

### Full example

You can see the final configuration tree here:
https://github.com/wemakecustom/symfony-kickstart/tree/master/dist

## Usage without Symfony Framework

It is also possible to use this library without registering with Symfony.

To do so, simply add the proper loader to your `LoaderResolver`.

Example with routing:

```php
<?php
    use Symfony\Component\Config\FileLocator;
    use Symfony\Component\Config\Loader\LoaderResolver;
    use WMC\DirectoryLoaderBundle\Loader\Routing\DirectoryFileLoader;

    $locator = new FileLocator($this);
    $resolver = new LoaderResolver(); // or load yours

    $resolver->addLoader(new DirectoryFileLoader($locator));
?>
```

Example with DI can be found above.

## Word of caution

[AsseticBundle](https://github.com/symfony/AsseticBundle) features a PHP directory loader
to be able to parse Controllers. This directory loader superseeds it: if it tries to do the
job of Assetic’s loader, it works correctly, but not the other way around. 

Therefore, this bundle inserts itself before Assetic to ensure it is run before.
A way to prevent this is to specify `type: directory` in the router import, but there is
currently a bug around this method. See symfony/AsseticBundle#289 and symfony/symfony#11018.
